main/modes/games/cGrove/Docs/Chowa.md, before:

# Chowa Grove
A small pet simulator for Swadge 2025. 

The game is a small one-screen game that allows you to raise a pet Chowa (final name TBD) that you can put into competitions, hang out with friends, dress up, and more!

Compare to Chao garden for SA2

## What is a Chowa?
A small, defenseless creature that needs your help to become... something. A fighter, maybe? A speed demon? A Singer? It's up to you to help them reach their full potential. 

[Chowa](Chowa.jpg) #FIXME: Need image

Raise them well, as the evil Dr. Garbotnik is also raising his own Chowa, and he can't be up to any good.

Be sure to take care of your Chowa or they might run away to a better home.

Each Swadge can have up to 5 Chowa at once.

### Numbers

#### Stats
- Color
- Stat block
	- Age
		- Egg (0.0-0.05)
		- New Born (0.06-0.10)
		- Child (0.11-0.35)
		- Adult (0.36-0.85)
		- Elderly (0.86-1.0)
	- Age scale (0-1.0, min 3 days, max 4)
	- Strength (0-1.0)
	- Agility (0-1.0)
	- Speed (0-1.0)
	- Charisma (0-1.0)
	- Stamina (0-1.0)

#### Personality/Mood
Personality and mood determine how the Chowa interacts with the player and other Chowa.

- Moods (Enum: text, expression, conditions)
	- Happy
	- Angry
	- Sad
	- Confused
	- Fearful
	- Surprised
	- Disgusted
- Personality (Stat growth modifiers)
	- Shy 
	- Brash
	- Boring 
	- Dumb
	- Cry Baby
	- Smart 
	- Overly Cautious 
	- Careless 
	- Kind
	- Aggressive 

### Raising Chowa
- Breeding
- Feeding (Fruits/Vegetables/Hard drives/Cooked meals)
- Schools to raise stats
- Shops (Gifts/food/Chowa eggs)
- - Affection
	- Pet
	- Kick/Toss
	- Gifts

## Items

### Aesthetics
- Cosmetics (~20 Hats/Shoes)
	- Cosmetics from previous games (Chozo gear?)
	- Online/Event cosmetics

### Gifts
- Crayons
- Ball
- Toy sword
- A *real* knife
- Cake
- Souffle
- Stat book (Str/Agi/Spd/Cha/Sta)

## Competitions
Competitions need to have NPCs to play against, or you can play against other players. Final NPC is a barely disguised Garbotnik.

### NPCs
- Pixel
- Poe
- Pango
- Garbotnik
- Add more from previous years

### Fighting
Fighting is a glorified game of five move rock-paper-scissors. Moves:
- Punch 
- Kick
- Headbutt
- Fast Punch
- Leaping kick

Chart showing who wins
| Player 1\Player 2 | Punch | F. Punch | Kick | L. Kick | Headbutt |
| ----------------- | ----- | -------- | ---- | ------- | -------- |
| Punch    | Draw | P2 | P1 | P2 | P1 |
| F. Punch | P1 | Draw | P2 | P1 | P2 |
| Kick     | P2 | P1 | Draw | P2 | P1 |
| L. Kick  | P1 | P2 | P1 | Draw | P2 |
| Headbutt | P2 | P1 | P2 | P1 | Draw |

Stages:
- Both Chowa start completely unready
- Depending on speed stat, they get ready for an attack
- Once ready, they wait for a short time
	- If both Chowa are ready before the time period ends, regular RPS happens
	- If one is unready, the unready one takes extra damage
- RPS is checked
- Damage is calculated based on Strength stat of attacking Chowa
- Agility is checked to see if the losing Chowa dodges
- Based on activities, drain some stamina
- Once stamina runs out, sit down and attempt to recover some stamina
- Readiness is reset

Player actions:
- Cheer Chowa: When regaining stamina, increase rate of regen
- Tell Chowa to get up: When regaining stamina, encourage them to stand back up and prepare to attack
- Pick fighting move: When preparing, influence move Chowa uses
- Dodge: When preparing, influence Chowa to dodge. Does less damage if preparing to dodge
- Forfeit: Any time, give up. Ask multiple times.

### Singing
Play a song/a portion of a song and make a random sequence of button presses.

Sequence:
- Song starts, score is set to 0
- Show a arrow/button on screen
- Buttons are "singing"
- Arrows are dancing
- Faster you press button, the higher the score
- Add anticipation? (DDR style, change from faster to more precise)

Chowa Stats:
- Str: No effect
- Agi: Dance modifier
- Cha: Sing modifier
- Spd: How long you have to press buttons
- Sta: No effect

### Racing
A footrace along an obstacle course.

Controls:
- Player can cheer the Chowa a few times per race, determined by Mood
- Player can give up anytime

Sequence:
- Running on path (Sta)
	- Chowa runs along path. 
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Combined running value below 0.5 adds chance of tripping
- Balance beam (Agi)
	- Chowa tightrops.
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Agi score < 0.5 has a chance of falling off
- Swimming (Str+Sta)
	- Chowa Swims in pool
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Combined value below 0.5 adds chance of floundering
- Climbing (Str)
	- Chowa Climbs a rock wall
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Str score < 0.5 has a chance of stalling temporarily

Chowa Stats:
- Str: Adds modifier to Swimming and Climbing
- Agi: Adds modifier to Balance beam
- Cha: No effect
- Spd: Speed modifier for all events
- Sta: Adds modifier to Running and Swimming

## Other features

### Online functionality
- Player ID (Name/Emotion tag/pronouns)
- Competitions

### Text entry
- Player and Chowa name entry

## Required Assets

### Art
- NPCs 
	- Pixel
	- Poe
	- Pango
	- Garbotnik
	- Selected from previous games (+random Chowa) gplord provided charcters, need to discuss
- Chowa (All poses) (Assumes palette swap)
	- Standing
	- Walking
	- Running
	- Eating
	- Jumping up and down
	- Climbing
	- Kick
	- Punch
	- Heatbutt (reuse Run?)
	- Trip (fall over)
	- Floundering
- Chowa Expressions
	- Happy
	- Angry
	- Sad
	- Confused
	- Fearful
	- Surprised
	- Disgusted
- Emotes
	- Anger particles/Steam
	- Sparkles
	- Exclamation point
- Grove background
- Concert stage
- Stage for fights (Dojo)
- Race course (Track/Balance beam/Pool/Climbing wall) Needs to loop
- Distance markers for races
- UI art
	- Message panel
	- Font
	- Buttons
	- Face buttons (A, B, C, Up, Down, Left, Right)
	- Title screen
- Hand icon
- Hand grab icon
- All items

### Music
Borrow as much from other projects as possible. Combine race and fight music? If the sound circuit is created, might need to source some music.

- Simple grove theme
- Action theme (Reuse from other games?)
- Song for singing competition (Use songs from previous years)

### SFX
- Interface beep
- Chowa interaction "pok"
- Chowa effort noises (2-5)
- Chowa vocalizations (2-5)
- Chowa pain noise
- Chowa eating
- Water splashes
- Footsteps
- Buying things (Cha-ching)

### Font
- Menu font (Use Sonic font? Ask gpLord)
- Compact font for in Grove

## Notes
- Maybe no palette swapping. If not, use abstract shapes and position them?
- LEDs will change colors based on competition
- Need to add CHowa compatability based on Charisma or other matching stats
- Swadge 2023 has text_entry.h/.c which is probably easier to use than making it from scratch

Commit message:

Updated Chowa docs with new performance mode

main/modes/games/cGrove/Docs/Chowa.md, after:

# Chowa Grove
A small pet simulator for Swadge 2025. 

The game is a small one-screen game that allows you to raise a pet Chowa that you can put into competitions, hang out with friends, dress up, and more!

Compare to Chao garden for SA2.

## What is a Chowa?
A small, defenseless creature that needs your help to become... something. A fighter, maybe? A speed demon? A Singer? It's up to you to help them reach their full potential. 

[Chowa](Chowa.jpg) #FIXME: Need image

Raise them well, as the evil Dr. Garbotnik is also raising his own Chowa, and he can't be up to any good.

Be sure to take care of your Chowa or they might run away to a better home.

Each Swadge can have up to 5 Chowa at once.

Chowa may get along with others based on a complicated formual I have yet to dream up. Probably along the following lines: `Cha1 * Cha2 * Mood1 * Mood2 * Similar skills + personality modifiers`

### Numbers

#### Stats
- Color
- Stat block
	- Age
		- Egg (0.0-0.05)
		- New Born (0.06-0.10)
		- Child (0.11-0.35)
		- Adult (0.36-0.85)
		- Elderly (0.86-1.0)
	- Age scale (0-1.0, min 3 days, max 4)
	- Strength (0-1.0)
	- Agility (0-1.0)
	- Speed (0-1.0)
	- Charisma (0-1.0)
	- Stamina (0-1.0)

#### Personality/Mood
Personality and mood determine how the Chowa interacts with the player and other Chowa.

- Moods (Enum: text, expression, conditions)
	- Happy
	- Angry
	- Sad
	- Confused
	- Fearful
	- Surprised
	- Disgusted
- Personality (Stat growth modifiers)
	- Shy 
	- Brash
	- Boring 
	- Dumb
	- Cry Baby
	- Smart 
	- Overly Cautious 
	- Careless 
	- Kind
	- Aggressive 

### Raising Chowa
- Breeding
- Feeding (Fruits/Vegetables/Hard drives/Cooked meals)
- Schools to raise stats
- Shops (Gifts/food/Chowa eggs)
- - Affection
	- Pet
	- Kick/Toss
	- Gifts

## Items

### Aesthetics
- Cosmetics (~20 Hats/Shoes)
	- Cosmetics from previous games (Chozo gear?)
	- Online/Event cosmetics

### Gifts
- Crayons
- Ball
- Toy sword
- A *real* knife
- Cake
- Souffle
- Stat book (Str/Agi/Spd/Cha/Sta)

## Competitions
Competitions need to have NPCs to play against, or you can play against other players. Final NPC is a barely disguised Garbotnik.

### NPCs
- Pixel
- Poe
- Pango
- Garbotnik
- Add more from previous years

### Fighting
Fighting is a glorified game of five move rock-paper-scissors. Moves:
- Punch 
- Kick
- Headbutt
- Fast Punch
- Leaping kick

Chart showing who wins
| Player 1\Player 2 | Punch | F. Punch | Kick | L. Kick | Headbutt |
| ----------------- | ----- | -------- | ---- | ------- | -------- |
| Punch    | Draw | P2 | P1 | P2 | P1 |
| F. Punch | P1 | Draw | P2 | P1 | P2 |
| Kick     | P2 | P1 | Draw | P2 | P1 |
| L. Kick  | P1 | P2 | P1 | Draw | P2 |
| Headbutt | P2 | P1 | P2 | P1 | Draw |

Stages:
- Both Chowa start completely unready
- Depending on speed stat, they get ready for an attack
- Once ready, they wait for a short time
	- If both Chowa are ready before the time period ends, regular RPS happens
	- If one is unready, the unready one takes extra damage
- RPS is checked
- Damage is calculated based on Strength stat of attacking Chowa
- Agility is checked to see if the losing Chowa dodges
- Based on activities, drain some stamina
- Once stamina runs out, sit down and attempt to recover some stamina
- Readiness is reset

Player actions:
- Cheer Chowa: When regaining stamina, increase rate of regen
- Tell Chowa to get up: When regaining stamina, encourage them to stand back up and prepare to attack
- Pick fighting move: When preparing, influence move Chowa uses
- Dodge: When preparing, influence Chowa to dodge. Does less damage if preparing to dodge
- Forfeit: Any time, give up. Ask multiple times.

### Performance
Have a small dance-off against a fellow Chowa. Plays like Simon, use arrow keys in an ever increasing pattern. Have a cap on max moves by difficulty. Player is guiding Chowa to do the routine, so sometimes the Chowa will mess up.

There's a global timer, and once a sequnce is input, a new sequence will spawn.

Score is based on number of completed sequnces. Stats adjust how likelt Chowa is to follow directions.

Sequnces can use all four arrow keys and A and B.

Sequence:
- Song starts, score is set to 0
- Show a arrow/button on screen
- Buttons are "singing"
- Arrows are dancing
- Faster you press button, the higher the score
- Add anticipation? (DDR style, change from faster to more precise)

Chowa Stats:
- Str: No effect
- Agi: Dance modifier
- Cha: Sing modifier
- Spd: How long you have to press buttons
- Sta: No effect

### Racing
A footrace along an obstacle course.

Controls:
- Player can cheer the Chowa a few times per race, determined by Mood
- Player can give up anytime

Sequence:
- Running on path (Sta)
	- Chowa runs along path. 
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Combined running value below 0.5 adds chance of tripping
- Balance beam (Agi)
	- Chowa tightrops.
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Agi score < 0.5 has a chance of falling off
- Swimming (Str+Sta)
	- Chowa Swims in pool
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Combined value below 0.5 adds chance of floundering
- Climbing (Str)
	- Chowa Climbs a rock wall
	- Cheering provides a boost in speed.
	- Str score < 0.5 has a chance of stalling temporarily

Chowa Stats:
- Str: Adds modifier to Swimming and Climbing
- Agi: Adds modifier to Balance beam
- Cha: No effect
- Spd: Speed modifier for all events
- Sta: Adds modifier to Running and Swimming

## Other features

### Online functionality
- Player ID (Name/Emotion tag/Fav food from list)
- Competitions

### Text entry
- Player and Chowa name entry

## Required Assets

### Art
- NPCs 
	- Pixel
	- Poe
	- Pango
	- Garbotnik
	- Selected from previous games (+random Chowa) 
- Chowa (All poses)
	- Standing
	- Walking
	- Running
	- Eating
	- Jumping up and down
	- Climbing
	- Kick
	- Punch
	- Heatbutt (reuse Run?)
	- Trip (fall over)
	- Floundering
- Chowa Expressions
	- Happy
	- Angry
	- Sad
	- Confused
	- Fearful
	- Surprised
	- Disgusted
- Emotes
	- Anger particles/Steam
	- Sparkles
	- Exclamation point
- Grove background
- Concert stage
- Stage for fights (Dojo)
- Race course (Track/Balance beam/Pool/Climbing wall) Needs to loop
- Distance markers for races
- UI art
	- Message panel
	- Font
	- Buttons
	- Face buttons (A, B, C, Up, Down, Left, Right)
	- Title screen
- Hand icon
- Hand grab icon
- All items

### Music
Borrow as much from other projects as possible. Combine race and fight music? If the sound circuit is created, might need to source some music.

- Simple grove theme
- Action theme (Reuse from other games?)
- Song for singing competition (Use songs from previous years)

### SFX
- Interface beep
- Chowa interaction "pok"
- Chowa effort noises (2-5)
- Chowa vocalizations (2-5)
- Chowa pain noise
- Chowa eating
- Water splashes
- Footsteps
- Buying things (Cha-ching)

### Font
- Menu font
- Compact font for in Grove
