docs/SERIAL_DEBUG.md, before:

# Serial Debug Output {#serial_out}

The Swadge has three options for serial debug output which are configured by running `idf.py menuconfig`, navigating to the `Swadge Configuration` menu, and then the `Select Debug Output` menu. After the debug output option is selected, the firmware should be clean, built, and flashed as normal. The three options are as follows.

### DEBUG_OUTPUT_UART

This option will route serial debug output through the ESP32-S2's default UART pin (GPIO 43). This is exposed as SMD pad on the back of the Swadge and must be soldered to be used.

To bridge this output to a computer, a UART to USB converter must be used, like an FT232 board or an FTDI cable. Any serial terminal program, like [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) should work. When opening up the port, use the following settings:

* 115200 bits/s
* 8 bits per frame
* 1 stop bit
* no parity bit

Once the Swadge is connected, assuming everything worked, it should look something like this:

```
ESP-ROM:esp32s2-rc4-20191025
Build:Oct 25 2019
rst:0xc (RTC_SW_CPU_RST),boot:0x8 (SPI_FAST_FLASH_BOOT)
Saved PC:0x4002563a
SPIWP:0xee
mode:DIO, clock div:1
load:0x3ffe6110,len:0x1ac
load:0x4004b000,len:0x4
load:0x4004b004,len:0x9f0
load:0x4004f000,len:0x2f08
entry 0x4004b194
I (544) cpu_start: Unicore app
I (544) cache: Instruction cache        : size 8KB, 4Ways, cache line size 32Byte
I (545) cache: Data cache               : size 8KB, 4Ways, cache line size 32Byte
I (549) esp_psram: Found 2MB PSRAM device
I (552) esp_psram: Speed: 80MHz
I (774) esp_psram: SPI SRAM memory test OK
I (781) cpu_start: Pro cpu start user code
I (781) cpu_start: cpu freq: 240000000 Hz
I (781) cpu_start: Application information:
I (781) cpu_start: Project name:     swadge2024
I (786) cpu_start: App version:      v1.1.0-336-g6580f8a0
I (791) cpu_start: Compile time:     Jul 17 2024 17:56:51
I (796) cpu_start: ELF file SHA256:  a0f9cb97d9158df6...
I (801) cpu_start: ESP-IDF:          v5.2.1
I (805) cpu_start: Min chip rev:     v0.0
I (809) cpu_start: Max chip rev:     v1.99 
I (813) cpu_start: Chip rev:         v1.0
I (816) heap_init: Initializing. RAM available for dynamic allocation:
I (823) heap_init: At 3FFD7B10 len 000244F0 (145 KiB): RAM
I (828) heap_init: At 3FFFC000 len 00003A10 (14 KiB): RAM
I (833) heap_init: At 3FF9E030 len 00001FB8 (7 KiB): RTCRAM
I (838) esp_psram: Adding pool of 2048K of PSRAM memory to heap allocator
I (845) spi_flash: detected chip: generic
I (848) spi_flash: flash io: qio
I (852) main_task: Started on CPU0
I (852) main_task: Calling app_main()
I (862) USB: USB initialization
W (862) TinyUSB: The device's device descriptor is not provided by user, using default.
I (862) tusb_desc: 
┌─────────────────────────────────┐
│  USB Device Descriptor Summary  │
├───────────────────┬─────────────┤
│bDeviceClass       │ 0           │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bDeviceSubClass    │ 0           │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bDeviceProtocol    │ 0           │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bMaxPacketSize0    │ 64          │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│idVendor           │ 0x1209      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│idProduct          │ 0x4269      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bcdDevice          │ 0x100       │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│iManufacturer      │ 0x1         │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│iProduct           │ 0x2         │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│iSerialNumber      │ 0x3         │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bNumConfigurations │ 0x1         │
└───────────────────┴─────────────┘
I (1032) TinyUSB: TinyUSB Driver installed
I (1032) USB: USB initialization DONE
I (1042) crashwrap: Crashwrap Install
W (1042) crashwrap: Crashwrap length: 36/36
W (1042) crashwrap: Last Crash: ADDR: 4008b04a FRAME: 3ffda3c0 EXCEPTION: 4
W (1052) crashwrap: Reason: LoadProhibited
W (1052) crashwrap: Description: Exception was unhandled.
W (1062) crashwrap: EXIT: 0x00000003 / PC: 0x4008b04a / PS: 0x00060b30 / A0: 0x80087671 / A1: 0x3ffda450 / SAR: 0x00000014 / EXECCAUSE: 0x0000001c / EXECVADDR: 0x00000000
E (1072) esp_timer: Task is already initialized
I (1082) CNFS: Size: 2310914, Files: 6664
I (1082) gpio: GPIO[0]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1092) gpio: GPIO[4]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1102) gpio: GPIO[2]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1112) gpio: GPIO[1]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1122) gpio: GPIO[16]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1122) gpio: GPIO[15]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1132) gpio: GPIO[8]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1142) gpio: GPIO[5]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1202) gpio: GPIO[21]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1202) gpio: GPIO[38]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
```

### DEBUG_OUTPUT_UART_SAO

This option will route serial debug output through a pin on the Simple Add-On (SAO) connector (GPIO 18). It's functionally the same as `DEBUG_OUTPUT_UART`, but in a more physically accessible location. The two pins used are:

<img src="./sao_hdr.png" width="512">

### DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB

This option will route serial debug output over the USB header. The Swadge doesn't enumerate as a regular serial port, so you must run our own serial monitor, [`swadgeterm`](../tools/swadgeterm/) to view the output. To build `swadgeterm` from the root of this repository, run:

```bash
make -C tools/swadgeterm
```

To run `swadgeterm` after building:

```bash
./tools/swadgeterm/swadgeterm
```

To do build and run in one command:

```bash
make -C tools/swadgeterm monitor
```

You should run `swadgeterm` before plugging in or powering on the Swadge. Assuming everything worked, it should look something like this:

```
PS D:\git\Super-2024-Swadge-FW> .\tools\swadgeterm\swadgeterm.exe

Waiting for USB...
Connected.
I (652) USB: USB initialization DONE
I (652) crashwrap: Crashwrap Install
W (652) crashwrap: Crashwrap length: 36/36
W (652) crashwrap: Last Crash: ADDR: 4008b04a FRAME: 3ffda3c0 EXCEPTION: 4
W (652) crashwrap: Reason: LoadProhibited
W (652) crashwrap: Description: Exception was unhandled.
W (652) crashwrap: EXIT: 0x00000003 / PC: 0x4008b04a / PS: 0x00060b30 / A0: 0x80087671 / A1: 0x3ffda450 / SAR: 0x00000014 / EXECCAUSE: 0x0000001c / EXECVADDR: 0x00000000
I (692) SPIFFS: Partition size: total: 1890281, used: 110691
I (692) gpio: GPIO[0]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[4]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[2]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[1]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[16]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[15]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[8]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[5]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (752) gpio: GPIO[21]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (752) gpio: GPIO[38]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
```

Note that the [`reflash_and_monitor.bat`](../tools/reflash_and_monitor.bat) batch launches `swadgeterm` and assumes the firmware was compiled with `DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB`.

Also note that USB output is needs to be initialized during the startup process, so you may miss very early system debug messages before `USB: USB initialization DONE`.

## Getting Crash Information

### ESP32-S2 Output

If the Swadge crashes, the system will print crash information on the non-USB UART. This will not be printed on when using `DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB`. It will look something like this:

```
Panic has been triggered
Guru Meditation Error: Core  0 panic'ed (LoadProhibited). Exception was unhandled.

Core  0 register dump:
PC      : 0x4008b04a  PS      : 0x00060b30  A0      : 0x80087671  A1      : 0x3ffda450  
A2      : 0x00379f8b  A3      : 0x00000000  A4      : 0x3ffd2278  A5      : 0x3fff6280  
A6      : 0x3fff2b74  A7      : 0x3fff2b74  A8      : 0x00000000  A9      : 0x3ffda430  
A10     : 0x0000411a  A11     : 0x00000000  A12     : 0x00000000  A13     : 0x3f26fd28  
A14     : 0x00000007  A15     : 0x00000000  SAR     : 0x00000014  EXCCAUSE: 0x0000001c  
EXCVADDR: 0x00000000  LBEG    : 0x00000000  LEND    : 0x3f26fd28  LCOUNT  : 0x400270b0  

Backtrace: 0x4008b047:0x3ffda450 0x4008766e:0x3ffda480 0x400f2adc:0x3ffda720
```

You can interpret the backtrace with the program `xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line` and the exact `elf` file that was flashed. This will print a detailed stack trace noting exactly where the crash occurred.

```bash
xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line -e build/swadge2024.elf 0x4008b047:0x3ffda450 0x4008766e:0x3ffda480 0x400f2adc:0x3ffda720

/home/user/esp/Swadge-IDF-5.0/main/modes/system/mainMenu/mainMenu.c:208
/home/user/esp/Swadge-IDF-5.0/main/swadge2024.c:346
/home/user/esp/esp-idf/components/freertos/app_startup.c:208
```

### `crashwrap`

When `DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB` is used, the Swadge will save crash information when it crashes and print it the next time it boots up. It will look something like this:

```
W (1042) crashwrap: Last Crash: ADDR: 4008b04a FRAME: 3ffda3c0 EXCEPTION: 4
W (1052) crashwrap: Reason: LoadProhibited
W (1052) crashwrap: Description: Exception was unhandled.
W (1062) crashwrap: EXIT: 0x00000003 / PC: 0x4008b04a / PS: 0x00060b30 / A0: 0x80087671 / A1: 0x3ffda450 / SAR: 0x00000014 / EXECCAUSE: 0x0000001c / EXECVADDR: 0x00000000
```

You can also interpret the Last Crash ADDR with the program `xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line` and the exact `elf` file that was flashed. This will print the single line where the crash occurred.

```bash
xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line -e build/swadge2024.elf 0x4008b04a 

/home/user/esp/Swadge-IDF-5.0/main/modes/system/mainMenu/mainMenu.c:208
```

Commit message:

Add notes about updated USB flashing

docs/SERIAL_DEBUG.md, after:

# Serial Debug Output {#serial_out}

The Swadge has three options for serial debug output which are configured by running `idf.py menuconfig`, navigating to the `Swadge Configuration` menu, and then the `Select Debug Output` menu. After the debug output option is selected, the firmware should be clean, built, and flashed as normal. The three options are as follows.

### DEBUG_OUTPUT_UART

This option will route serial debug output through the ESP32-S2's default UART pin (GPIO 43). This is exposed as SMD pad on the back of the Swadge and must be soldered to be used.

To bridge this output to a computer, a UART to USB converter must be used, like an FT232 board or an FTDI cable. Any serial terminal program, like [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) should work. When opening up the port, use the following settings:

* 115200 bits/s
* 8 bits per frame
* 1 stop bit
* no parity bit

Once the Swadge is connected, assuming everything worked, it should look something like this:

```
ESP-ROM:esp32s2-rc4-20191025
Build:Oct 25 2019
rst:0xc (RTC_SW_CPU_RST),boot:0x8 (SPI_FAST_FLASH_BOOT)
Saved PC:0x4002563a
SPIWP:0xee
mode:DIO, clock div:1
load:0x3ffe6110,len:0x1ac
load:0x4004b000,len:0x4
load:0x4004b004,len:0x9f0
load:0x4004f000,len:0x2f08
entry 0x4004b194
I (544) cpu_start: Unicore app
I (544) cache: Instruction cache        : size 8KB, 4Ways, cache line size 32Byte
I (545) cache: Data cache               : size 8KB, 4Ways, cache line size 32Byte
I (549) esp_psram: Found 2MB PSRAM device
I (552) esp_psram: Speed: 80MHz
I (774) esp_psram: SPI SRAM memory test OK
I (781) cpu_start: Pro cpu start user code
I (781) cpu_start: cpu freq: 240000000 Hz
I (781) cpu_start: Application information:
I (781) cpu_start: Project name:     swadge2024
I (786) cpu_start: App version:      v1.1.0-336-g6580f8a0
I (791) cpu_start: Compile time:     Jul 17 2024 17:56:51
I (796) cpu_start: ELF file SHA256:  a0f9cb97d9158df6...
I (801) cpu_start: ESP-IDF:          v5.2.1
I (805) cpu_start: Min chip rev:     v0.0
I (809) cpu_start: Max chip rev:     v1.99 
I (813) cpu_start: Chip rev:         v1.0
I (816) heap_init: Initializing. RAM available for dynamic allocation:
I (823) heap_init: At 3FFD7B10 len 000244F0 (145 KiB): RAM
I (828) heap_init: At 3FFFC000 len 00003A10 (14 KiB): RAM
I (833) heap_init: At 3FF9E030 len 00001FB8 (7 KiB): RTCRAM
I (838) esp_psram: Adding pool of 2048K of PSRAM memory to heap allocator
I (845) spi_flash: detected chip: generic
I (848) spi_flash: flash io: qio
I (852) main_task: Started on CPU0
I (852) main_task: Calling app_main()
I (862) USB: USB initialization
W (862) TinyUSB: The device's device descriptor is not provided by user, using default.
I (862) tusb_desc: 
┌─────────────────────────────────┐
│  USB Device Descriptor Summary  │
├───────────────────┬─────────────┤
│bDeviceClass       │ 0           │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bDeviceSubClass    │ 0           │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bDeviceProtocol    │ 0           │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bMaxPacketSize0    │ 64          │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│idVendor           │ 0x1209      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│idProduct          │ 0x4269      │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bcdDevice          │ 0x100       │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│iManufacturer      │ 0x1         │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│iProduct           │ 0x2         │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│iSerialNumber      │ 0x3         │
├───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│bNumConfigurations │ 0x1         │
└───────────────────┴─────────────┘
I (1032) TinyUSB: TinyUSB Driver installed
I (1032) USB: USB initialization DONE
I (1042) crashwrap: Crashwrap Install
W (1042) crashwrap: Crashwrap length: 36/36
W (1042) crashwrap: Last Crash: ADDR: 4008b04a FRAME: 3ffda3c0 EXCEPTION: 4
W (1052) crashwrap: Reason: LoadProhibited
W (1052) crashwrap: Description: Exception was unhandled.
W (1062) crashwrap: EXIT: 0x00000003 / PC: 0x4008b04a / PS: 0x00060b30 / A0: 0x80087671 / A1: 0x3ffda450 / SAR: 0x00000014 / EXECCAUSE: 0x0000001c / EXECVADDR: 0x00000000
E (1072) esp_timer: Task is already initialized
I (1082) CNFS: Size: 2310914, Files: 6664
I (1082) gpio: GPIO[0]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1092) gpio: GPIO[4]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1102) gpio: GPIO[2]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1112) gpio: GPIO[1]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1122) gpio: GPIO[16]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1122) gpio: GPIO[15]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1132) gpio: GPIO[8]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1142) gpio: GPIO[5]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1202) gpio: GPIO[21]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
I (1202) gpio: GPIO[38]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0 
```

### DEBUG_OUTPUT_UART_SAO

This option will route serial debug output through a pin on the Simple Add-On (SAO) connector (GPIO 18). It's functionally the same as `DEBUG_OUTPUT_UART`, but in a more physically accessible location. The two pins used are:

<img src="./sao_hdr.png" width="512">

### DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB

This option will route serial debug output over the USB header. In general you can perform the following two steps to accomplish flashing and logging over the USB interface while the swadge is operating.

This command will install udev rules on Linux to allow you to use the swadge for printf and other advanced USB features. **You only need to call it once**
```bash
make installudev
```

Then any time you wish to reboot the swadge into bootloader, flash, reboot back into code and monitor, execute the following:
```bash
make usbflash
```

For more background,

The Swadge doesn't enumerate as a regular serial port, so you must run our own serial monitor, [`swadgeterm`](../tools/swadgeterm/) to view the output. To build `swadgeterm` from the root of this repository, run:

```bash
make -C tools/swadgeterm
```

To run `swadgeterm` after building:

```bash
./tools/swadgeterm/swadgeterm
```

To do build and run in one command:

```bash
make -C tools/swadgeterm monitor
```

You should run `swadgeterm` before plugging in or powering on the Swadge. Assuming everything worked, it should look something like this:

```
PS D:\git\Super-2024-Swadge-FW> .\tools\swadgeterm\swadgeterm.exe

Waiting for USB...
Connected.
I (652) USB: USB initialization DONE
I (661) crashwrap: Crashwrap Install
W (661) crashwrap: Crashwrap length: 36/36
W (661) crashwrap: Last Crash: ADDR: 4008aab0 FRAME: 3ffda310 EXCEPTION: 4
W (661) crashwrap: Reason: StoreProhibited
W (661) crashwrap: Description: Exception was unhandled.
W (661) crashwrap: EXIT: 0x800a1e24 / PC: 0x4008aab0 / PS: 0x00060930 / A0: 0x8009301c / A1: 0x3ffda3a0 / SAR: 0x00000004 / EXECCAUSE: 0x0000001d / EXECVADDR: 0x00000000
W (661) crashwrap: Backtrace:
W (661) crashwrap: xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line -e build/swadge2024.elf 0x4008aab0:0x00060930
I (692) SPIFFS: Partition size: total: 1890281, used: 110691
I (692) gpio: GPIO[0]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[4]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[2]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[1]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[16]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[15]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[8]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (692) gpio: GPIO[5]| InputEn: 1| OutputEn: 0| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 1| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (752) gpio: GPIO[21]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
I (752) gpio: GPIO[38]| InputEn: 0| OutputEn: 1| OpenDrain: 0| Pullup: 0| Pulldown: 0| Intr:0
```
To figure out where your last crash was, xecute the `xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line` line as it appears in the log. I.e.

```bash
$ xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line -e build/swadge2024.elf 0x4008aab0:0x00060930
/home/cnlohr/git/Super-2024-Swadge-FW/main/modes/system/mainMenu/mainMenu.c:343
```

Note that the [`reflash_and_monitor.bat`](../tools/reflash_and_monitor.bat) batch launches `swadgeterm` and assumes the firmware was compiled with `DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB`.

Also note that USB output is needs to be initialized during the startup process, so you may miss very early system debug messages before `USB: USB initialization DONE`.

## Getting Crash Information

### ESP32-S2 Output

If the Swadge crashes, the system will print crash information on the non-USB UART. This will not be printed on when using `DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB`. It will look something like this:

```
Panic has been triggered
Guru Meditation Error: Core  0 panic'ed (LoadProhibited). Exception was unhandled.

Core  0 register dump:
PC      : 0x4008b04a  PS      : 0x00060b30  A0      : 0x80087671  A1      : 0x3ffda450  
A2      : 0x00379f8b  A3      : 0x00000000  A4      : 0x3ffd2278  A5      : 0x3fff6280  
A6      : 0x3fff2b74  A7      : 0x3fff2b74  A8      : 0x00000000  A9      : 0x3ffda430  
A10     : 0x0000411a  A11     : 0x00000000  A12     : 0x00000000  A13     : 0x3f26fd28  
A14     : 0x00000007  A15     : 0x00000000  SAR     : 0x00000014  EXCCAUSE: 0x0000001c  
EXCVADDR: 0x00000000  LBEG    : 0x00000000  LEND    : 0x3f26fd28  LCOUNT  : 0x400270b0  

Backtrace: 0x4008b047:0x3ffda450 0x4008766e:0x3ffda480 0x400f2adc:0x3ffda720
```

You can interpret the backtrace with the program `xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line` and the exact `elf` file that was flashed. This will print a detailed stack trace noting exactly where the crash occurred.

```bash
xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line -e build/swadge2024.elf 0x4008b047:0x3ffda450 0x4008766e:0x3ffda480 0x400f2adc:0x3ffda720

/home/user/esp/Swadge-IDF-5.0/main/modes/system/mainMenu/mainMenu.c:208
/home/user/esp/Swadge-IDF-5.0/main/swadge2024.c:346
/home/user/esp/esp-idf/components/freertos/app_startup.c:208
```

### `crashwrap`

When `DEBUG_OUTPUT_USB` is used, the Swadge will save crash information when it crashes and print it the next time it boots up. It will look something like this:

```
W (1042) crashwrap: Last Crash: ADDR: 4008b04a FRAME: 3ffda3c0 EXCEPTION: 4
W (1052) crashwrap: Reason: LoadProhibited
W (1052) crashwrap: Description: Exception was unhandled.
W (1062) crashwrap: EXIT: 0x00000003 / PC: 0x4008b04a / PS: 0x00060b30 / A0: 0x80087671 / A1: 0x3ffda450 / SAR: 0x00000014 / EXECCAUSE: 0x0000001c / EXECVADDR: 0x00000000
```

You can also interpret the Last Crash ADDR with the program `xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line` and the exact `elf` file that was flashed. This will print the single line where the crash occurred.

```bash
xtensa-esp32s2-elf-addr2line -e build/swadge2024.elf 0x4008b04a 

/home/user/esp/Swadge-IDF-5.0/main/modes/system/mainMenu/mainMenu.c:208
```
